---
published: true
---

## Week 12 Lab: Wifi Hacking 101

<dl>
  <dt>Task 1</dt>
  <dd>Most home WiFi networks, and many others, use WPA(2) personal. If you have to log in with a password and it's not WEP, then it's WPA(2) personal. WPA2-EAP uses RADIUS servers to authenticate, so if you have to enter a username and password in order to connect then it's probably that.</dd>
  <dd> What type of attack on the encryption can you perform on WPA(2) personal?</dd>
    <dd>Brute Force</dd>
  
    <dd>What's the minimum length of a WPA2 Personal password?
</dd>
    <dd>8</dd>
  
  <dd> scan the machine with nmap and find 7 open ports </dd>
  <dt>Task 2 - You're being watched - Capturing packets to attack</dt>
  <dd>Using the Aircrack-ng suite, we can start attacking a wifi network.</dd>
  <dd> use this command on Kali: head /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt -n 10000 | shuf -n 5 -</dd>
  
    <dd>How do you put the interface “wlan0” into monitor mode with Aircrack tools? </dd>
  
  <dd> airmon-ng start wlan0</dd>

  <dd>What do you do if other processes are currently trying to use that network adapter? 
</dd>
  <dd>airmon-ng check kill</dd>
  
  
  <dt>Task 3 - Aircrack-ng - Let's Get Cracking</dt>
  <dd> U
In order to crack the password, we can either use aircrack itself or create a hashcat file in order to use GPU acceleration</dd>
 
  <dd>What flag do we use to specify a BSSID to attack?
</dd>
  <dd>-b</dd>
 
  <dd>What flag do we use to specify a wordlist?</dd>

  <dd>-w</dd>
  <dd>How do we create a HCCAPX in order to use hashcat to crack the password?
</dd>
 
  <dd>-j</dd>
 
  <dd>Using the rockyou wordlist, crack the password in the attached capture. What's the password?
</dd>

  <dd>greeneggsandham</dd>
 
  <dd>Where is password cracking likely to be fastest, CPU or GPU?
</dd>

  <dd>GPU</dd>
  
  
  
 
 
</dl>
