---
published: true
---
## Blue

<dl>
  <dt>Task 1</dt>
  <dd>Scan and learn what exploit this machine is vulnerable to. Please note that this machine does not respond to ping (ICMP</dd>
  <dd> Scan the machine.</dd>
   
  <dt>Task 2 - Gain access: Exploit the machine and gain a foothold.</dt>
  <dd>Usually it would be fine to run this exploit as is; however, for the sake of learning, you should do one more thing before exploiting the target. Enter the following command and press enter:

set payload windows/x64/shell/reverse_tcp

With that done, run the exploit!</dd>
  <dd> Confirm that the exploit has run correctly. You may have to press enter for the DOS shell to appear. </dd>
  

  <dt>Task 3 - Escalate privileges, learn how to upgrade shells in metasploit.</dt>
  <dd> Select this (use MODULE_PATH)</dd>
 
  <dd>
Verify that we have escalated to NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM. Run getsystem to confirm this. Feel free to open a dos shell via the command 'shell' and run 'whoami'. This should return that we are indeed system. Background this shell afterwards and select our meterpreter session for usage again. 
</dd>
  <dd>WCopy this password hash to a file and research how to crack it. What is the cracked password?
 </dd>
 
  <dd>alqfna22</dd>
  
   <dt>Task 5 -Find Flags</dt>
  <dd> Flag1? This flag can be found at the system root. 
</dd>
 <dd>flag{access_the_machine}</dd>
    <dd> Flag2? This flag can be found at the location where passwords are stored within Windows.
</dd>
 <dd>flag{sam_database_elevated_access}</dd>
  <dd> Flag 3</dd>
    <dd>flag{admin_documents_can_be_valuable}</dd>
