---
published: false
---
## ICE


<dl>
  <dt>Task 1</dt>
  <dd>This task was mainly concerned with connectivity to THM and target machine.

#1 No answer needed. Downloading configuration to access THM.

#2 No answer needed. Connecting to THM.

#3 No answer needed. Verify connectivity with THM.

#4 No answer needed. Machine virtual IP.</dd>
   
  <dt>Task 2 - Gain access: Exploit the machine and gain a foothold.</dt>
  <dd>This task was mainly concerned with reconnaissance of target machine.

#1 No answer needed. This subtask was concerned with deploying the target machine.</dd>
  <dd> #2 No answer needed. Scanned the target machine using nmap –sS flag for syn scanning and –p flag for all ports. </dd>
  

  
  <dd> #3 From nmap scans it was evident that Microsoft Remote Desktop (MSRDP) was running on tcp port 3389.
 
  <dd>
from version scan (-sV) or –A (enable os/version detection, script scan and traceroute) it can be identified that Icecast service is running on port 8000.
</dd>
  <dd>Hostname was identified as “DARK-PC” by nmap.
 </dd>
 
  
   <dt>Task 3</dt>
  <dd> This task was mainly concerned with exploiting vulnerability and gaining access to system.


</dd>
 <dd>he identifier of the vulnerability was CVE-2004-1561</dd>
    <dd> After selecting the module, type options (or show options) and you will get module options list. From the list only required missing setting is RHOSTS
</dd>
   <dt>Task 4</dt>
  <dd> TThis task is mainly concerned with privilege escalation to gain system access on target system.use exploit/windows/local/bypassuac_eventvwr
    


</dd>

  <dd>
No answer needed. Your attack system IP (IP of tun0) can be checked using ifconfig tun0 or from msfconsole using ip addr command.
</dd>
  <dd>“SeTakeOwnershipPrivilege” is the privilege that allows us to take ownership of files.


 </dd>
  
  <dt>Task 5</dt>
  <dd> TThis task is concerned mainly with gathering and cracking credentials.
    


</dd>

  <dd>
“creds_all” is the command that lets you retrieve all credentials.
</dd>
  
   <dt>Task 6</dt>
  <dd> This task wants you to explore post-exploitation actions that can be performed on Windows.
    


</dd>

  <dd>
“screenshare”command allows us to watch the remote user’s desktop in real time.
</dd>
   <dd> golden_ticket_create. For this subtask you need to connect to target machine using remote desktop.
    


</dd>

</dl>