---
published: false
---
## Intro to x86-64

<dl>
  <dt>Task 1</dt>
  <dd>This room will look at the basic primitives of Intel's x86-64 assembly language, and will use these primitives to understand the construction of basic programs using loops, functions and procedures. </dd>
   
  <dt>Task 2 </dt>
  <dd>Computers execute machine code, which is encoded as bytes, to carry out tasks on a computer. Since different computers have different processors, the machine code executed on these computers is specific to the processor. In this case, we’ll be looking at the Intel x86-64 instruction set architecture which is most commonly found today. Machine code is usually represented by a more readable form of the code called assembly code. 
  </dd>

 
  
   <dt>Task 3</dt>
  <dd> The general format of an if statement is

if(condition){
  do-stuff-here
}else if(condition) //this is an optional condition {
  do-stuff-here
}else {
  do-stuff-here
}

</dd>

   <dt>Task 4</dt>
  <dd> 
What is the value of var_8h before the popq and ret instructions?

    


</dd>

  <dd>
96
</dd>
  <dd>what is the value of var_ch before the popq and ret instructions?
 </dd>
  <dd>
0
</dd>
  
  <dt>Task 5</dt>
  <dd> Usually two types of loops are used: for loops and while loops. The general format of a while loops is:
while(condition){
  Do-stuff-here
  Change value used in condition
}

The general format of a for loop is
for(initialise value: condition; change value used in condition){
  do-stuff-here
}
</dd>

  <dd>
What is the value of var_ch on the second iteration of the loop?
</dd>
  
  
  
  <dd>
0
</dd>
  
   <dt>Task 6</dt>
  <dd> Go to the crackme folder and analyse the crackme1 binary. This binary checks if the user has a correct password, and this can be done by running the binary and entering the password.



</dd>

  <dd>
“What is the password?

</dd>
   <dd> 
     127.0.0.1
  

</dd>
  <dt>Task 7</dt>
  <dd> Analyse the crackme2 binary and try find the correct password, as with the previous question.


</dd>
   <dd> 
     dwperuc3sv
  

</dd>

</dl>