---
published: true
---
## Mobile Malware Analysis


<dl>
  <dt>Task 1</dt>
  <dd>It's incredible how often our computers are in the scope of cyber attacks. Antivirus has become an indispensable shield to provide us with a more secure environment, since we are exposed to destructible malware and cyber attacks. Inside our pockets, we have computers so powerful, but much smaller, we must be equally attentive on our phones, because we can suffer equally damaging attacks, sometimes even worse, because they can store relevant information such as private conversations and important accounts.</dd>
   
  <dt>Task 2 </dt>
  <dd>What known as the first malware created to affect mobile devices?


What technology does this worm used to multiply?
    Cabir


What operating system did it infect?
Bluetooth

What message did it show on the screen of the infected mobile phone?
   Symbian

The worm was created and sent out by researchers as a PoC (Proof of Concept), they did not believe that the mobile operating system could be easily exploited. Since then, malicious programs have become more popular.  
 </dd>
 
  
   <dt>Task 3</dt>
  <dd> Deploy the machine and use MobSF to scan the file named "TWFsd2FyZQ.apk" that is located on the Desktop.
</dd>

  <dt>Task 4</dt>
  <dd> To analyze the file in VirusTotal, you will need the file hash, you can get it by using the powershell cmdlet "Get-FileHash" or you can analyze the filw with MobSF and it will show the file hash (we will get back to this tool in the next task).
</dd>
  
   <dt>Task 5</dt>
  <dd> Let's use MobSF(Mobile Security Framework) to make a deeper analysis of this file, MobSF is a software created to make a security focused analysis of Android and IOS files. It can check for misconfigurations, leaked data and much more in a mobile program
    


</dd>
  
     <dt>Task 6</dt>
  <dd> What is the SHA-256 hash of the file?
bd8cda80aaee3e4a17e9967a1c062ac5c8e4aefd7eaa3362f54044c2c94db52a
    After finding the sample on VirusTotal, what does the "Avast" anti-virus engine recognizes it as?
    Android:Obfus-BM [Trj]
    
</dd>



</dl>
