---
published: true
---

## Form Parsing Using Document AI

<dl>
  <dt>This lab you learn how to:</dt>
  <dd>Create a Jupyter Notebook instance on Cloud AI Platform
Create a Service Account so that you can automate form processing.
Upload a PDF document to Google Cloud Storage.
Invoke Document AI.
Parse the response using low-level functions based on the visual layout of the form.
Parse the response using high-level functions based on the semantic structure of the form.</dd>
  

  <dt>Setup</dt>
  <dd>As consumers, we are used to filling out forms to apply for insurance, make insurance claims, specify healthcare preferences, apply for employment, tax withholdings, etc. Businesses on the other side of these transactions get a form that they need to parse, extract specific pieces of data from, and populate a database with.</dd>
  
  
  
  <dd>In the JupyterLab tab, click on Edit > Clear All Outputs to clear all the cells in the notebook.

Run the first 4 cells in the notebook.

Click into a cell - the blue bar to the left shows you which cell you're working in.
Press the triangular run selected cells... button in the top ribbon or press Shift + Enter for each cell.
These cells download a file named scott_walker.pdf and then use the IPython display to display the PDF file.</dd>
  
  
  <dt>Enable Document AI</dt>
  <dd> In the Jupyter notebook, run the cell in the Enable Document AI section to find out the active account email address. This is who the notebook user is running as. Copy this email address.</dd>
 
  <dt>Call Document AI
</dt>


  <dd>  In the first Call Document AI cell, change the PDF to point to the file in your bucket. Copy the bucket location output from cell 7 and add it in to cell 14.
</dd>

  
  
  
 
 
</dl>
