---
published: true
---


## Week 5 Lab: OWASP Top 10

<dl>
  <dt>Task 1</dt>
  <dd>OWASP Top 10</dd>
 <dd>This room breaks each OWASP topic down and includes details on what the vulnerability is, how it occurs and how you can exploit it. </dd>
  <dt>Task 2</dt>
  <dd>Injection flaws are very common in applications today. These flaws occur because user controlled input is interpreted as actual commands or parameters by the application. Injection attacks depend on what technologies are being used and how exactly the input is interpreted by these technologies. Some common examples include:</dd>
  <dd>The main defence for preventing injection attacks is ensuring that user controlled input is not interpreted as queries or commands</dd>
  <dt>Task 3</dt>
  <dd> Command Injection occurs when server-side code (like PHP) in a web application makes a system call on the hosting machine.  It is a web vulnerability that allows an attacker to take advantage of that made system call to execute operating system commands on the server.  Sometimes this won't always end in something malicious</dd>
 
  <dd>Once the attacker has a foothold on the web server, they can start the usual enumeration of your systems and start looking for ways to pivot around.  Now that we know what command injection is, we'll start going into the different types and how to test for them.</dd>
  <dd>Blind command injection occurs when the system command made to the server does not return the response to the user in the HTML document.  Active command injection will return the response to the user.  It can be made visible through several HTML elements. </dd>
 
  <dd>Authentication and session management constitute core components of modern web applications. Authentication allows users to gain access to web applications by verifying their identities. The most common form of authentication is using a username and password mechanism. A user would enter these credentials, the server would verify them. If they are correct, the server would then provide the users’ browser with a session cookie. </dd>

  <dt>Task 4</dt>
  <dd>lot of times what happens is that developers forgets to sanitize the input(username & password) given by the user in the code of their application, which can make them vulnerable to attacks like SQL injection. </dd>
 
 
 
  <dd>c2110d06dc6f81c67cd8099ff0ba601241f1ac0e</dd>

  <dd>What is the flag that you found in arthur's account?</dd>


  <dd>094fbc9b48e525150ba97d05b942bbf114987257</dd>
  
  <dt>Task 5</dt>
  
  <dd>When a webapp accidentally divulges sensitive data, we refer to it as "Sensitive Data Exposure". This is often data directly linked to customers (e.g. names, dates-of-birth, financial information, etc), but could also be more technical information, such as usernames and passwords. At more complex levels this often involves techniques such as a "Man in The Middle Attack", whereby the attacker would force user connections through a device which they control, then take advantage of weak encryption on any transmitted data to gain access to the intercepted information (if the data is even encrypted in the first place</dd>

  <dd>As mentioned previously, flat-file databases are stored as a file on the disk of a computer. Usually this would not be a problem for a webapp, but what happens if the database is stored underneath the root directory of the website (i.e. one of the files that a user connecting to the website is able to access)? Well, we can download it and query it on our own machine, with full access to everything in the database. Sensitive Data Exposure indeed!</dd>
 
  <dd>The most common (and simplest) format of flat-file database is an sqlite database. These can be interacted with in most programming languages, and have a dedicated client for querying them on the command line. This client is called "sqlite3", and is installed by default on Kali.</dd>
  <dd>We have the custID (0), the custName (Joy Paulson), the creditCard (4916 9012 2231 7905) and a password hash (5f4dcc3b5aa765d61d8327deb882cf99).</dd>
 
  <dd>66bdcffad9e698fd534003fbb3cc7e2b7b55d7f0</dd>
    <dd> By placing a NULL character in the string at a certain byte, the string will tell the server to terminate at that point, nulling the rest of the string</dd>
 
  <dd>bfc1e6b4a16579e85e06fee4c36ff8c02fb13795</dd>
  
 <dt>Task 22</dt>
 
 <dd>A prominent element of object-oriented programming (OOP), objects are made up of two things:
- State
- Behaviour

Simply, objects allow you to create similar lines of code without having to do the leg-work of writing the same lines of code again.</dd>
 
  <dd>Serialisation is the process of converting objects used in programming into simpler, compatible formatting for transmitting between systems or networks for further processing or storage.</dd>
 
  <dd>946a799363226a24822008503f5d1324536629a0</dd>


  <dd>41b997a36cc33fbe4f0ba018474e19ae5ce52121</dd>
  
  <dt>Task 25</dt>
  <dd>Modifying Cookie Values
Notice here that you have a cookie named "userType". You are currently a user, as confirmed by your information on the "myprofile" page.</dd>
 
 

  <dd>9aaf4bbea5c30d00a1f5bbcfce4db6d4b0efe0bf</dd>
  
  

  <dd>149aa8ce13d7a4a8a931472308e269c94dc5f156</dd>
  
  <dd>Occasionally, you may find that the company/entity that you're pen-testing is using a program that already has a well documented vulnerability.</dd>
 
  <dd>Recall that since this is about known vulnerabilities, most of the work has already been done for us. Our main job is to find out the information of the software, and research it until we can find an exploit. Let's go through that with an example web application.

</dd>
 
  <dd>The server will have a lookup table or database </dd>

  <dd>23cefee1527bde039295b2616eeb29e1edc660a0</dd>
  
  <dt>Task 30</dt>
  <dd>When web applications are set up, every action performed by the user should be logged. Logging is important because in the event of an incident, the attackers actions can be traced. Once their actions are traced, their risk and impact can be determined. Without logging, there would be no way to tell what actions an attacker performed if they gain access to particular web applications. The bigger impacts of these include:</dd>


  <dd>7efd3174f9dd5baa03a7882027f2824d2f72d86e</dd>
  
  
 
</dl>
